Add Sentry JWT and OIDC Proposal (#84)
dapr/proposals: 20250524-R-sentry-jwt-oidc.md

**In scope:**
- Sentry issues JWTs as workload credentials, signed with configurable key/algorithm
- JWKS endpoint for trust distribution
- Optional OIDC discovery server
- Audience claim configurable per app ID (default: trust domain)
- JWT rotation mechanism

**Not in scope:**
- Full OIDC authorization flows (only discovery and JWKS endpoints)
- Custom claims beyond audience, issuer, and standard fields

**Alternatives considered:**
- Only supporting x.509: limits interoperability with cloud and OIDC systems
- External JWT/OIDC proxy: adds operational complexity, not integrated with Sentry

**Trade-offs:**
- Increases Sentry configuration and deployment complexity
- Exposes unauthenticated endpoints (user must secure as needed)

**Advantages:**
- Enables federated identity scenarios and cloud provider integration
- No breaking changes to existing APIs

**Disadvantages:**
- Additional configuration required for Sentry
- Endpoint security is the user's responsibility

## Implementation Details

### Design

- Sentry configuration extended for JWT signing key, algorithm, JWKS (auto-generated if not provided)
- JWT issued alongside x.509 SVID in `SignCertificate` response

> - Audience claim set from app ID configuration (default: trust domain)

Reviewer: Please include Configuration CRD changes.

```go
// SignCertificateResponse is returned by Sentry's SignCertificate API.
type SignCertificateResponse struct {
    // Existing x.509 SVID fields
	WorkloadCertificate []byte
	TrustChainCertificates [][]byte
	ValidUntil             *timestamppb.Timestamp

	// JWT token for authentication. Always provided by Sentry if configured to issue JWTs.
	Jwt *string
}
```

#### Proposed token provider for components-contrib

```go
// Token provider function to retrieve JWT from SPIFFE context
tokenProvider := func(ctx context.Context) (string, error) {
    // New method on spiffecontext to fetch JWT SVID
	tknSource, ok := spiffecontext.JWTFrom(ctx)
	if !ok {
		return "", fmt.Errorf("failed to get JWT SVID source from context")
	}
	jwt, err := tknSource.FetchJWTSVID(ctx, jwtsvid.Params{
		Audience: AzureADTokenExchangeAudience,
	})
	if err != nil {
		return "", fmt.Errorf("failed to get JWT SVID: %w", err)
	}
	return jwt.Marshal(), nil
}
```

### Proposed Sentry Configuration Flags

**JWT-related flags:**
- `--jwt-enabled` (bool): Enable JWT token issuance by Sentry
- `--jwt-key-filename` (string): JWT signing key filename
- `--jwks-filename` (string): JWKS (JSON Web Key Set) filename

> - `--jwt-issuer` (string): Issuer value for JWT tokens (no issuer if empty)

Reviewer: Surely this is always the Dapr control plane trust domain, and cannot be configured differently?

Author: No, this has to match the domain you are exposing your OIDC server on.

> - `--jwt-signing-algorithm` (string): Algorithm for JWT signing, must be supported by signing key

Author: Added

> - `--jwt-key-id` (string): Key ID (kid) for JWT signing

Author: This is the kid of the signing key. It's in the token and used by clients to uniquely look up the key in the JWKS during validation. I can make this a thumbprint of the key by default but allow the user to override it.

**OIDC-related flags:**

> - `--oidc-http-port` (int): Port for the OIDC HTTP server (disabled if 0)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--oidc-server-listen-port` (int): Port for the OIDC HTTP server (disabled if 0)
```

Please also include a listen address flag like here (which defaults to localhost).

https://github.com/dapr/dapr/blob/137da857234b079199764324490bf4165a17a150/cmd/daprd/options/options.go#L123

> - `--oidc-jwks-uri` (string): Custom URI for external JWKS access

Reviewer: Default `nil`?

> - `--oidc-path-prefix` (string): Path prefix for all OIDC HTTP endpoints

Reviewer: “All”? Why is there more than one? If I understand this is for serving the oidc discovery endpoint?

Rather than prefix, please can we have explicit url path with sane well known defaults. Prefix style configuration is always confusing/finicky.

Author: We currently server the discovery and issuer JWKS endpoints. To be compliant we also have to advertise the authorize endpoint via the discovery doc even though it's not implemented. This is for routing - you need the discovery document endpoints to match the route you used to expose it.

> - `--oidc-domains` (string slice): Allowed domains for OIDC HTTP endpoint requests

Reviewer: What does this do? Check the SNI headers for incoming well known http requests? 🤔

Author: TLS is terminated here, but because you're exposing an unauthenticated HTTP server this just allows you to restrict the hostname in the request to ensure the requests are coming via the expected route e.g. `oidc.myissuer.net` and not via some internal or alternative domain.

> - `--oidc-tls-cert-file` (string): TLS certificate file for OIDC HTTP server (required if enabled)
> - `--oidc-tls-key-file` (string): TLS key file for OIDC HTTP server (required if enabled)
> - `--oidc-tls-insecure` (bool): Serve OIDC HTTP without TLS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--oidc-server-tls-cert-file` (string): TLS certificate file for OIDC HTTP server (required if enabled)
- `--oidc-server-tls-key-file` (string): TLS key file for OIDC HTTP server (required if enabled)
- `--oidc-server-tls-enable` (bool): Serve OIDC HTTP with TLS
```
